gggmork:

I really like obhack gameplay (with challenging parameters) better than
the majority of non-generated maps, so I don't want to suggest any
ideas that make it worse :). Its kinda hard to guess what could improve
it without testing, but I'd suspect traps/surprises would mostly be for
the worse (in my opinion). The trap you mentioned would probably have
an exploit (trigger the trap door to close on an enemies head so it
reopens, or clear the room from far away before triggering it.. or it
might be too hard anyway as being trapped with a mancubus + reverents
or something could easily kill you, plus traps are more about
memorization than skill).

I'd guess gameplay tends to be more fun/challenging when rooms are more
interconnected (dealing w/ enemies from multiple directions) instead of
linear. But variety is also nice. Maybe have even harder parameters
available (if you include cybers you might want to put a bunch of extra
enemies in the cyber room because he'll just infight everone, but hard
to know a good way to implement cybers without testing- maybe just have
them random like everything else so each encounter will be unique).
Maybe an option to start with a berzerk would be cool. Probably just
ignore that previous comment I made as it was due to me playing overly
cautious.

I like how, in outdoor maps, non-deaf floating enemies from all over
the map can often cross barriers to overwhelm you as a gang. And demons
are fun as moving walls, often killing me indirectly.

One note is that, for some stairs that have thin stepping surfaces,
they block some ground enemies depending on enemy size. Not sure if
making stairs less enemy-blocking would be for the better or worse.
It could be fun to choose to have lots of viles or few viles etc, same
for other monsters.


Jodwin:

One thing I often do when going on a short trip is generate a new
obhack megawad with challenging options (hordes of monsters, little
ammo, huge maps, pistol start...) and take that with me, those are
always a blast to play. However most of the time the very beginning is
ridiculously hard while the rest of the map...not so much. It's not
really because of starting only with the pistol and having little ammo,
but because if you start outside you'll suddenly be swarmed with cacos,
pes and lost souls from half a way across the whole map. :P And once
you get enough weaponry to take them out you already know that you've
managed to kill monsters that you "should" have met like 20 minutes
later, and those parts won't be as hard.

So...I'm not saying that having some cacos coming is bad, without any
of them it might be too easy, but I guess the generator could use at
least some sound blocking lines more.

