
PREVENT CAMPING
===============


40oz:

Because you can use teleports, ledge dropoffs, tall lifts, or a monster
closet that opens in the start after you leave the room to reduce
players returning to player-created safe zones.


ESSELFORTIUM:

It can be tricky to avoid camping scenarios, sure, but it's absolutely
possible without resorting to the cliche of blocking bars in every
doorway.

- Height dropoffs (which can be done in so many different ways)

- Nukage runs (whether putting nukage leading up to a setpiece area to
  keep the player in it, or by giving them a radsuit to limit their time
  spent in the setpiece area itself)

- Teleporting the player to a new section

- Teleporting monsters behind the player to chase them into a bigger fight

- Putting needed supplies where the player can see them but can only get
  them by crossing the room and waking up monsters


RDWPA:

Anyway, the usual alternatives:

1) Structure your entire map as a single open or semi-open area in which
there are no safe spots.  Bear in mind that if you want your map to
contain a second discrete area, one that isn't campable.... well, you
know where this is going...

2) Restrict monster movement so they can't follow the player to the
camping spot. Imagine a room with turreted mancs or something.

3) Control the player's resources in such a way that they are obligated
to move forward into monster-occupied territory to make any sort of
progress and unable to reliably dispose of monsters from safe spots
without exposing themselves to harm.  Imagine ammo stashes generally
being in the midst of monsters.

4) Boss turrets with line-of-sight of campable areas. (This works in
tandem with #3)

5) Use environmental hazards -- damaging floors, crushers, etc. -- to
make retreat costly or risky, or alternately, to mandate aggressive play
(e.g. having to fight on a damaging surface with a limited number of
radsuits at your disposal).

6) Make camping inherently draining on resources. Viles, for example,
resurrecting stuff unless you play aggressively and get rid of them.

