[quote=KAISER]

This is usually how levels are designed, especially for modern games.
The purpose of these stages is to iterate the level step by step and
reduce the time being spent to do major reworks.  Nothing is more
frustrating than having to create one half of the level with full
detail, sectoring, lighting, the works, and only to find out that,
gameplay wise, it’s not working out and most of the content ends up
being scrapped. Time is pretty much wasted. This is why gameplay comes
first, and then detail last.

The way I typically create levels for Doom (since during D64TC and CIF3)
I would build the levels through the following stages:

* Layout - Nothing fancy, no sector heights, lighting, texturing etc.
           Layout is blocked out in editor and major events, areas,
           sequences or other highlights are identified and the level
           layout and scope is iterated. This stage shouldn't take no
           more than one or two days. Bear in mind that the layout is
           not set in stone. Don't become married to this layout as some
           parts usually gets modified or changed for your gameplay or
           whatever.

* Prototype - Sector heights, no texturing, basic thinker placement
              (doors, lifts etc). Designer runs through the level to get
              the time length to run from start to end and to test out
              the flow for combat, traps etc. If using ACS, then basic
              scripts are implemented, just so something is there as a
              placeholder, again nothing fancy. This shouldn't take up
              much time either.

* Gameplay - Any gameplay related things are added (monsters, ammo,
             objects used to block paths etc). Scripting should be
             polished and be at its full potential. At this point, level
             authors should provide the prototype level to others to get
             feedback on the gameplay, which can be quickly tweaked,
             changed, updated etc without spending too much time.

* Pretty - Texturing, sector work, lighting, detailing, thing details
           etc. Go nuts; beautify the shit out of your level.

* Polish - Level is polished, scripting polish, gameplay polished etc.
           Address any minor glitches, or texture flaws and whatnot.

[/quote]
